Now, there are many ways you can get started creating your own tokens.
I'm going to show you a couple of ways,
in fact, two different ways.
In the first way, we will implement all these functions
ourselves and then deploy it to locally running JavaScript VM.
Now, I'm in my Remix right now and we have the JavaScript Virtual Machine,
which is an in-browser Ethereum Network running in right now.
We will use Remix for this whole process,
which is my step number one or my process number one.
Now, I'm going to do this to show you basic function implementation.
So, all the functions that I just showed you in my last video,
that you have to implement the mapping and the transfer events,
we're going to write these functions down.
But, also at the same time,
I will let you know that we're not going to implement any error handling yet.
So, I'm not going to deploy any public network using this process.
My second way that I'm going to show you in the next video is,
of course, going to be my preferred way.
But, for this is something really important because
it really help you understand how this whole thing works, okay?
So, let's walk through,
so all these functions that we just talked about,
if you look in my standards that I showed you.
So, this is a basic standard what it looks like.
We talked about in the previous video.
So, now implement this,
now this is a file that I'm implementing,
so calling it contract myToken is a name of my token.
So, if you see we have three optional things here,
so I have the name, symbol,
decimals, and I'm going to implement that.
So, I'm going to see my name,
I'm going to call it Udacity Token,
and I'm going give it a symbol of this and this.
I'm also setting a initial supply to total supply.
What I'm doing is that in my constructor function,
whenever I initiated the contract,
I'm getting an amount,
and I'm setting my total amounts to those many tokens.
So, that means when the contract is initiated,
it's going to set the total initial supply,
which is _totalSupply as per the input argument,
and we'll talk about that in just a second,
and then we have a mapping,
that is storing the balances, like I said,
"The best way to implement the storing your balances,
is using a mapping."
So, this is about mapping for each account,
stored using a mapping,
address of the account,
and the number of tokens at the address has.
Now, we will talk about mapping in just a second for the second allowance,
but let's just talk about the constructor function.
So, what we're doing in the constructor function
like I said this is called automatically,
when the contract is initiated.
It sets the total supply as per whatever the input was received,
and it also gives the initial supply to the msg.sender.
Remember the msg.sender is the one who is initiating the contract,
we learned about this in one of our previous videos.
So, what it's doing is that it's accessing the balances, mapping,
with the square bracket notation like we logged in mapping,
of the msg.sender, and it's setting.
So, it's giving all the initial supply of whatever
the number of token to the person who is creating the contract.
So, that's happening in the constructor function.
Now, the next mapping we're implementing here is,
now remember we talked about forth allowance.
That one address can allow another address to spend
these many number of tokens from the initial owner's account.
So, what we're doing is that we are someone from the owner of the account,
it proves the allowance for another account,
creating an allowance, mapping, right there.
So, this is a mapping of an address,
and another mapping inside it.
So, the first key is the owner of the tokens,
this address, and the second mapping it says,
"Who can spend on your behalf, and how much?"
So, which address can spend how much, forward address.
So, we are creating a mapping with the keys and address,
and the value is further a mapping of address to amount.
So, that's the two mappings we're implementing here,
and then we have two events we talked about.
We are supposed if you look in the standards,
we are supposed to implement two events,
so all I'm doing is at implementing or writing those two events down.
Now, these are the six functions,
of course, we have the constructor function,
and these are the mandatory functions, totalSupply, balanceOf,
transfer, transferFrom, and approved, and, of course,
allowance, is this one right there,
which will also be a function.
So, now let's talk about the very first function we have the balanceOf.
Now, the total supply in fact the first one,
the total supply all it does is that returns the total supply of tokens.
So, if you call this function,
is going to give you the total supply back.
Now, this is a supply that we initially set in our constructor function.
That's the first function, the second function
we're implementing is the balance of function.
So, it's getting an address of the token owner.
That means and, again, a public function,
that means anyone can query and find the balance of an address.
So, this function it gets the token balance for an account token owner,
and it returns the balance.
So, if you see the return values are uint value.
So, we're accessing the balances,
mapping for the address given to us with a square bracket notation.
This is how you access mappings,
and then you're returning it.
So, that's the second function,
and the third function that we are implementing here is a transfer function.
Now, again, if you see these are all the functions that are
pretty much coming from my standards. Again, I'm going to show you.
We are having three optional things.
We have two event and six functions.
Now, this is anytime you implement these functions,
it is mandatory, that's the only way you can make an ERC-20 standard token.
So, the next function,
so we talked about totalSupply,
the next function is balanceOf,
we talked about that, and then we have more functions after that,
the next is the transfer function.
Now, what this is doing is that it's transfer them
balance from the owner's account to another account.
Of course, it's going to so once it transfers,
you'd have two parameters;
input parameters two tokens.
So, it sets, so whoever is initiating or calling this function,
it's taking the balance from that msg.sender,
and then subtracting the balance.
So, I said it decreases the balance from the from account,
increases the balance of the to account where it's going to,
and it also emitted transfer event.
Okay, and then the returns are true or false, simple.
So, if you look at it just one or two times, it's going to get pretty clear.
It's pretty simple to implement these ERC-20 standards,
and the second is a transferFrom function.
Now, we talked about this is another way of transferring.
So, it's sending an amount of tokens from the from address,
to address, and the number of tokens,
and again returns a success.
Now, the transferFrom function we talked about in our previous video,
is used to allow contracts,
to spend tokens on your behalf.
So, it spends token on your behalf,
and it also decreases the balance from the
from account because it's going away from the from account,
and it also, is going to decrease allowance because this had an allowance, right?
So, initially when you gave an approval,
we'll talk about approve in just a second.
But, it's also going to decrease,
if this account was approved to spend these many tokens,
since it's spending these many tokens,
we need to decrease that allowance, right?
So, we're going to decrease that.
Now, since remember allowance was a mapping, inside another mapping.
So, would accessing good with a double notations allowance, from in msg.sender,
and then we have our allowance this and then be decreasing that allowance,
and then when transferring tokens, to address.
So, whatever the two address that's we'd need to transfer it,
to what transferring the number of tokens,
and then we're emitting the transfer event, and then return true.
Then, we have a function approved.
Now, this approved the spender to withdraw from
your account multiple times up to the token amount.
So, the msg.sender is approving this spender to spend
these many tokens from the msg.sender's account.
Not also sets up allowance mapping accordingly.
This is what is creating the mapping right here,
and it also emit the approval event,
so we have two events remember,
we have the transfer event, the approval event.
Since we are approving an account,
to spend money from another account.
So, we're sending an approval event which is this way, and return true.
So, now this is how you deploy,
or you create or implement these standards.
Now, I'm going to deploy this to a local JavaScript machine right now.
Now, again, just wanted to show you that this
is just a basic way of implementing functions,
I have not really completely written,
but I definitely wanted you to walk through how these all events happen.
It's not implementing the error handling yet.
So, it might be rejected as a standardized token,
but I'm sure it gave you a nice understanding of these functions,
and but I would definitely encourage you to use my next option in the next video,
which will go through, but let's go deploy for now.
So, I'm going to go deploy to my local JavaScript machine running right here.
So, if you see I'm in a JavaScript environment right now.
So, I'm going to take my tokens is given an initial supply of,
okay 1,000, we'll start 1,000,
and then we're going to deploy it.
Now, you can also go right there and then look at what's going on.
So, if you see it comes back with a hash that means everything went fine.
I'm going to click on this little button right here,
so if you see my contract has been deployed this is the address of the contract.
So, that's the address.
So, again, we're in the local JavaScript machine,
so we really are not able to go to Ether scan right now.
We'll do that in the next video,
but just to local machine,
the coined, that token is deployed.
Now, let's go click on totalSupply, income to be 1,000,
remember this is what the constructor function did to totalSupply,
and also remember, in my constructor function I gave
my whole initial balance to the msg.center or the person who created the account,
so lets go see if that happened.
So, I'm going to copy this address,
this is the one that I initiated the contract with, right?
I'm going to go paste it in my balanceOf.
So, let's go check the balance of this address,
and I'm supposing this should be 1,000, which it is.
Fantastic. Now, let's also try transferring,
some tokens from one account to another account.
So, I'm going to go in my this environment,
I'm going to go, let's say,
so we deployed from this address 147.
So, let's go pick another address,
I'm going to go pick the first one,
and copy the address,
you click on this small button to copy it,
and then I'm going to go transfer.
I'm going to go back to my this account.
Then, if you've seen that transfer,
I can transfer to.
So, I'm going to transfer to my one of
the other addresses that's given to me by the JavaScript VM,
I'm going to say, "I want to transfer 10 tokens."
So, let's click on the transfer event.
Now, once that goes through,
now let's go find the balance of this.
I'm going to go, again, find the balance,
of my address that I just transferred to,
and let's see I'm supposing this balance should be 10.
Fantastic, and the balance of the one it transferred from,
should now be decreased to 990.
Let's again try that. So, the balance of this one goes to lower.
Again, you can always query on the name,
we had Udacity Token,
we had a symbol,
already showed you we had decimals of 18,
so all these functions you can always try the transferFrom function.
Now, this is just a simple way of understanding how all of these functions work.
But, in my next video, we're actually going to go deploy it to a public test network.
We're going to go use the Rinkeby test network,
and that we can actually have physical token really,
a digital token and you can also transfer it to your friends that way.
So, this was the Remix way.
In our next video, we will move on to our Truffle,
and then show you how to deploy a token using Infura,
to a public test network, Rinkeby.